# Antifp_SRF
Antifp_SRF: Identifying Antifungal Peptides by sequence Statistical Moments and Random Forest classifier
Omar Mohammed Barukab1, Hina Asad2, Dr. Wajdi Alghamdi3, Yoosef Bassam Abushark4, Dr. Sher Afzal Khan5.

Abstract

Wide varieties of fungi are harmful to health and can cause serious diseases in humans. A fungi attack on certain parts of the human body for which the immune system cannot withstand these fungal pathogens. A lot of research has been done on the subject, but drugs, chemicals, and traditional methods have not been good enough because of their harmful side effects. Due to the rapidly invading fungus species, antimicrobial peptides having antifungal properties were emerged as a new and powerful candidate due to their efficiency and selectivity. Many mathematical models are being developed for its identification, including Deep-AntiFP and AntiFP, the most recently. However, it has limited performance in accuracy, sensitivity, precision, and MCC. This study investigates an efficient and accurate computational model for the prediction of antifungal peptides (AFPs) using machine learning approaches. The model uses the statistical moment as feature extraction and Random Forest (RF) as a predictor to predict AFPs from non-AFPs. 10-fold cross-validation, independent tests, and self-consistency tests are used to validate the performance of the model. Three datasets are used for model training and its evaluation, namely Antifp_Main, Antifp_DS1 and Independent_main. The model achieved an accuracy of 95.73%, 97.01% and 99.15% for Antifp_Main, Antifp_DS1 and Independent_main respectively through independent testing; 97.4%, 97.3% and 97.4% by 10-fold cross-validation and 99.74%, 99.87 and 99.83 by self-consistency testing. The proposed model has shown excellent results for all the three datasets as compared to the existing models available in the literature. Publically the source code and data are available at https://github.com/HinaAsad/Antifp_SRF.

